# Hotel-Booking-Demand-and-Cancellation-with-Predictive-Analytics

### Project Summary

Hotel booking cancellation is a major revenue issue for hotels. Booking cancellations not only has impact on hotel revenue and affect pricing but can also impact overbooking situations and could affect hotel’s online social reputation. The objective is to build model that can classify booking as cancelled or not using Machine learning. Machine Learning is a branch of Artificial Intelligence (AI) where applications are developed to learn from data to improve accuracy without any programming done to do so.
The data is obtained from Hotel Booking Demand Datasets for the analysis. The dataset is from real bookings in European market. The data obtained in raw form is cleaned and formatted. Visualization tools are used to create images that provides important insights about the dataset. For instance, cancellation before certain number of days will be looked as it is important to so that hotels can arrangements well ahead of time. With the help of machine learning algorithms, different models are trained and performance score of each model is determined. The model that has the best score is selected for fine tuning.

From all the models tested, it is discovered that the best performing model is Random Forest. The tuned model has around 87% accuracy in predicting hotel cancellation.
By using the prediction, hotels can act on high cancellation probability and associated revenue losses. Hotels can manage their business accordingly. Better net demand forecasts can be made, overbooking, cancellation policies can be improved and the revenue can be increased. There are not many models available to predict hotel cancellations. Hence, it is recommended for business to use this model and grow their business.
